README.md, before:

# Twisted-Fetch (Fork)

> **Note:** This is a fork of the original `twisted` library. The primary goal of this fork is to replace the `axios` dependency with the native `fetch` API to improve browser/Deno compatibility and reduce bundle size. The original README is preserved below for general reference.

# Twisted
League of Legends API Wrapper <br>
![https://www.npmjs.com/package/twisted](https://nodei.co/npm/twisted.png)

# Simple example
RIOT:
```js
import { RiotApi, Constants } from 'twisted'

const api = new RiotApi()

export async function getAccount () {
  // Recommended to use the nearest routing value to your server: americas, asia, europe
  return (await api.Account.getByRiotId("Hide on bush", "KR1", Constants.RegionGroups.AMERICAS)).response
}
```
LOL:
```js
import { LolApi, Constants } from 'twisted'

const api = new LolApi()

export async function getSummoner () {
  const user = await getAccount()
  return await api.Summoner.getByPUUID(user.puuid, Constants.Regions.KOREA)
}
```
TFT:
```js
import { TftApi, Constants } from 'twisted'

const api = new TftApi()

export async function matchListTft () {
  const user = await getAccount()
  return api.Match.list(user.puuid, Constants.RegionGroups.KOREA)
}

```
[More examples](https://github.com/Sansossio/twisted/tree/master/example)

# Automatic rate limits reattempts
```js
import { LolApi } from 'twisted'

const api = new LolApi({
   /**
   * If api response is 429 (rate limits) try reattempt after needed time (default true)
   */
  rateLimitRetry: true
  /**
   * Number of time to retry after rate limit response (default 1)
   */
  rateLimitRetryAttempts: 1
  /**
   * Concurrency calls to riot (default infinity)
   * Concurrency per method (example: summoner api, match api, etc)
   */
  concurrency: undefined,
  /**
   * Riot games api key
   */
  key: '',
  /**
   * BaseURL for a rate limiting proxy (default: "https://$(region).api.riotgames.com/:game")
   * Using this field is for a very advanced use case and in most cases not necessary
   * ${region} and :game are expected but not required variables
   */
  baseURL: "http://localhost:8080/${region}/:game",
  /**
   * Debug methods
   */
  debug: {
    /**
     * Log methods execution time (default false)
     */
    logTime: false
    /**
     * Log urls (default false)
     */
    logUrls: false
    /**
     * Log when is waiting for rate limits (default false)
     */
    logRatelimit?: false
  }
})
```

# Endpoints 
Everything should be in the same order as in the official docs.

# Riot Endpoints
## ACCOUNT-V1
- [x] `Get account by puuid`
- [ ] `Get account by puuid - ESPORTS`
- [x] `Get account by riot id`
- [ ] `Get account by riot id - ESPORTS`
- [ ] `Get active shard for a player`
- [x] `Get active region (lol and tft)`
- [ ] `Get account by access token`
- [ ] `Get account by access token - ESPORTS`

# LOL Endpoints
## CHAMPION-MASTERY-V4
- [x] `Get all champion mastery entries sorted by number of champion points descending.`
- [x] `Get a champion mastery by player ID and champion ID.`
- [x] `Get a player's total champion mastery score, which is the sum of individual champion mastery levels.`
## CHAMPION-V3
- [x] `Retrieve all champions.`
- [x] `Retrieve champion by ID.`
## CLASH
- [x] `Get players by summoner id`
- [x] `Get team`
- [x] `Get tournaments`
- [x] `Get tournaments by team id`
- [x] `Get tournament by id`
## MATCH-V5
- [x] `Get match by id`
- [x] `Get matches by summoner id`
- [x] `Get match timeline by id`
## MATCH-V4 (deprecated)
- [x] `Get matches id by tournament code`
- [x] `Get match by id`
- [x] `Get match by tournament code`
- [x] `Get matches by summoner id`
- [x] `Get match timeline by id`
## LEAGUE-V4
- [x] `Get the challenger league for given queue.`
- [x] `Get league entries in all queues by PUUID.`
- [x] `Get league entries in all queues for a given summoner ID.`
- [x] `Get all the league entries.`
- [x] `Get the grandmaster league of a specific queue.`
- [x] `Get league with given ID, including inactive entries.`
- [x] `Get the master league for given queue.`
- [x] `Get the queues that have positional ranks enabled.` (deprecated June 17th and in `v0.9.10`)
- [x] `Get league positions in all queues for a given summoner ID.` (deprecated June 17th and in `v0.9.10`)
- [x] `Get all the positional league entries.` (deprecated June 17th and in `v0.9.10`)
## LOL-CHALLENGES-V1
- [x] `Get all challenge configurations.`
- [x] `Get all challenge percentile distributions.`
- [x] `Get a challenge configuration.`
- [x] `Get Leaderboards for a challenge (Chall, GM, Masters).`
- [x] `Get a challenge percentile distribution.`
- [x] `Get player challenge information.`
## LOL-STATUS-V3
- [x] `Get League of Legends status for the given shard.`
- [x] `Get matchlist for games played on given account ID and platform ID and filtered using given filter parameters, if any.`
- [x] `Get match timeline by match ID.`
- [x] `Get match IDs by tournament code.`
- [x] `Get match by match ID and tournament code.`
## LOL-STATUS-V4
- [x] `Get League of Legends status for the given platform.`
## SPECTATOR-V5
- [x] `Get current game information for the given summoner ID.`
- [x] `Get list of featured games.`
## SPECTATOR-V4 (deprecated [April 5](https://twitter.com/RiotGamesDevRel/status/1764780016640852222?t=pHB1GpVotgKnNYU-OH_1HQ&s=19))
- [x] `Get current game information for the given summoner ID.`
- [x] `Get list of featured games.`
## SUMMONER-V4
- [x] `Get a summoner by account ID.`
- [x] `Get a summoner by summoner name.` (deprecated Oct 16th, 2023)
- [x] `Get a summoner by PUUID.` 
- [x] `Get a summoner by summoner ID.`
## TOURNAMENT-STUB-V4
- [ ] `Create a mock tournament code for the given tournament.`
- [ ] `Gets a mock list of lobby events by tournament code.`
- [ ] `Creates a mock tournament provider and returns its ID.`
- [ ] `Creates a mock tournament and returns its ID.`
## TOURNAMENT-V4
- [ ] `Create a tournament code for the given tournament.`
- [ ] `Returns the tournament code DTO associated with a tournament code string.`
- [ ] `Update the pick type, map, spectator type, or allowed summoners for a code.`
- [ ] `Gets a list of lobby events by tournament code.`
- [ ] `Creates a tournament provider and returns its ID.`
- [ ] `Creates a tournament and returns its ID.`

# TFT Endpoints
## TFT-SPECTATOR-V5
- [x] `Get current game information for the given puuid.`
- [x] `Get list of featured games.`
## TFT-SUMMONER-V1
- [x] `Get a summoner by account ID.`
- [x] `Get a summoner by summoner name.` (deprecated Oct 16th, 2023)
- [x] `Get a summoner by PUUID.`
- [x] `Get a summoner by summoner ID.`
## TFT-MATCH-V1
- [x] `Get match list by summoner PUUID.`
- [x] `Get match list details.`
## TFT-LEAGUE-V1
- [x] `Get the challenger league for given queue.`
- [x] `Get the grandmaster league for given queue.`
- [x] `Get the master league for given queue.`
- [x] `Get league entries in all queues for a given summoner ID.`
- [ ] `Get all the league entries.`
- [ ] `Get league with given ID, including inactive entries.`

# Run all examples

Download code from git and:

## Simple
```$ RIOT_API_KEY={YOUR_KEY} yarn example```

## Specific examples
```$ RIOT_API_KEY={YOUR_KEY} yarn example {exampleFunctionName}```

## With docker
Edit docker-compose.yml with your api key and:
```$ docker-compose up```

## Real project
We did a project based on a "twisted" package, this project is not finished but it is a very good example<br />
Github: https://github.com/twisted-gg

# Options

The following environment variables can be set either in the ```.env``` file or as shown in the examples:
 
## ```RIOT_API_KEY```

Obtained from the Riot Games developer page(https://developer.riotgames.com/)
Necessary to use this library.

## ```UPDATE_CHAMPION_IDS```

This library has an option to fetch an actual version of champion IDs regularly. This is useful in case a new champion
gets added, while the application runs. E.g. data crawlers, or services which aren't supposed to be restarted regularly.

Set the value to ```true``` or ```1``` to enable this feature.

Commit message:

doc + env var '1' special case

README.md, after:

# Twisted-Fetch (Fork)

> **Note:** This is a fork of the original `twisted` library. The primary goal of this fork is to replace the `axios` dependency with the native `fetch` API to improve browser/Deno compatibility and reduce bundle size. The original README is preserved below for general reference.

## Changes from the original API

### Errors and Exceptions thrown
In the event of an error during the fetching of API endpoints, the exceptions that are thrown are not AxiosErrors anymore, but instead GenericErrors, wrapping a ```FetchError``` if the API could not access the Riot APIs, a ```ResponseError``` if a result could be fetched but the result could not be transformed into an actual Riot Api object (i.e. the status was not in the OK (200-299) range, or the returned json was broken or could not fit into a Twisted DTO object). 

```FetchError``` may contain an .error field indicating the original error causing the fetch failure. 
```ResponseError``` has .status and .headers containing the HTTP status and headers returned by the Riot API servers, and may have a .body with more details. 
```GenericError``` has .rateLimits indicating the Riot-returned rate limiting parameters and a .error field containing the original error, plus a .status field (with ```GenericError.UNDEFINED_STATUS``` = 500 as a default value, so this may not be the actually returned status if the error cause was not an http error response). 


### Automatic champions ID change detection

```constants/champions.ts``` (and the library) now export new constants and methods to manually start and stop automatic champion ID updates : 


```DAILY_DELAY: number```

```UPDATE_CHAMPION_IDS: number```

```async startChampionUpdates (championUpdateDelay?: number)```

```stopChampionUpdates ()```

```async updateChampionIds ()```

The ```startChampionUpdates()``` function is started automatically if the ```UPDATE_CHAMPION_IDS``` env var is set, starting the schedult update like in the original library. But its value now has a meaning : if the env var is set to a number > 0, this number is interpreted as the interval between champion update attempts in seconds and the autoupdate starts. If it is set, but not to a positive number, the ```DAILY_DELAY``` value is used instead. As a special case, 1 is used as an equivalent to ```DAILY_DELAY```. 

You can check the value of ```UPDATE_CHAMPION_IDS``` after the module has been loaded to check which value has been used for the automatic startup delay : 0 means autostart has not been enabled, but you can still call startChampionUpdates manually ; or you could directly call ```updateChampionIds()```. 


# Twisted
League of Legends API Wrapper <br>
![https://www.npmjs.com/package/twisted](https://nodei.co/npm/twisted.png)

# Simple example
RIOT:
```js
import { RiotApi, Constants } from 'twisted'

const api = new RiotApi()

export async function getAccount () {
  // Recommended to use the nearest routing value to your server: americas, asia, europe
  return (await api.Account.getByRiotId("Hide on bush", "KR1", Constants.RegionGroups.AMERICAS)).response
}
```
LOL:
```js
import { LolApi, Constants } from 'twisted'

const api = new LolApi()

export async function getSummoner () {
  const user = await getAccount()
  return await api.Summoner.getByPUUID(user.puuid, Constants.Regions.KOREA)
}
```
TFT:
```js
import { TftApi, Constants } from 'twisted'

const api = new TftApi()

export async function matchListTft () {
  const user = await getAccount()
  return api.Match.list(user.puuid, Constants.RegionGroups.KOREA)
}

```
[More examples](https://github.com/Sansossio/twisted/tree/master/example)

# Automatic rate limits reattempts
```js
import { LolApi } from 'twisted'

const api = new LolApi({
   /**
   * If api response is 429 (rate limits) try reattempt after needed time (default true)
   */
  rateLimitRetry: true
  /**
   * Number of time to retry after rate limit response (default 1)
   */
  rateLimitRetryAttempts: 1
  /**
   * Concurrency calls to riot (default infinity)
   * Concurrency per method (example: summoner api, match api, etc)
   */
  concurrency: undefined,
  /**
   * Riot games api key
   */
  key: '',
  /**
   * BaseURL for a rate limiting proxy (default: "https://$(region).api.riotgames.com/:game")
   * Using this field is for a very advanced use case and in most cases not necessary
   * ${region} and :game are expected but not required variables
   */
  baseURL: "http://localhost:8080/${region}/:game",
  /**
   * Debug methods
   */
  debug: {
    /**
     * Log methods execution time (default false)
     */
    logTime: false
    /**
     * Log urls (default false)
     */
    logUrls: false
    /**
     * Log when is waiting for rate limits (default false)
     */
    logRatelimit?: false
  }
})
```

# Endpoints 
Everything should be in the same order as in the official docs.

# Riot Endpoints
## ACCOUNT-V1
- [x] `Get account by puuid`
- [ ] `Get account by puuid - ESPORTS`
- [x] `Get account by riot id`
- [ ] `Get account by riot id - ESPORTS`
- [ ] `Get active shard for a player`
- [x] `Get active region (lol and tft)`
- [ ] `Get account by access token`
- [ ] `Get account by access token - ESPORTS`

# LOL Endpoints
## CHAMPION-MASTERY-V4
- [x] `Get all champion mastery entries sorted by number of champion points descending.`
- [x] `Get a champion mastery by player ID and champion ID.`
- [x] `Get a player's total champion mastery score, which is the sum of individual champion mastery levels.`
## CHAMPION-V3
- [x] `Retrieve all champions.`
- [x] `Retrieve champion by ID.`
## CLASH
- [x] `Get players by summoner id`
- [x] `Get team`
- [x] `Get tournaments`
- [x] `Get tournaments by team id`
- [x] `Get tournament by id`
## MATCH-V5
- [x] `Get match by id`
- [x] `Get matches by summoner id`
- [x] `Get match timeline by id`
## MATCH-V4 (deprecated)
- [x] `Get matches id by tournament code`
- [x] `Get match by id`
- [x] `Get match by tournament code`
- [x] `Get matches by summoner id`
- [x] `Get match timeline by id`
## LEAGUE-V4
- [x] `Get the challenger league for given queue.`
- [x] `Get league entries in all queues by PUUID.`
- [x] `Get league entries in all queues for a given summoner ID.`
- [x] `Get all the league entries.`
- [x] `Get the grandmaster league of a specific queue.`
- [x] `Get league with given ID, including inactive entries.`
- [x] `Get the master league for given queue.`
- [x] `Get the queues that have positional ranks enabled.` (deprecated June 17th and in `v0.9.10`)
- [x] `Get league positions in all queues for a given summoner ID.` (deprecated June 17th and in `v0.9.10`)
- [x] `Get all the positional league entries.` (deprecated June 17th and in `v0.9.10`)
## LOL-CHALLENGES-V1
- [x] `Get all challenge configurations.`
- [x] `Get all challenge percentile distributions.`
- [x] `Get a challenge configuration.`
- [x] `Get Leaderboards for a challenge (Chall, GM, Masters).`
- [x] `Get a challenge percentile distribution.`
- [x] `Get player challenge information.`
## LOL-STATUS-V3
- [x] `Get League of Legends status for the given shard.`
- [x] `Get matchlist for games played on given account ID and platform ID and filtered using given filter parameters, if any.`
- [x] `Get match timeline by match ID.`
- [x] `Get match IDs by tournament code.`
- [x] `Get match by match ID and tournament code.`
## LOL-STATUS-V4
- [x] `Get League of Legends status for the given platform.`
## SPECTATOR-V5
- [x] `Get current game information for the given summoner ID.`
- [x] `Get list of featured games.`
## SPECTATOR-V4 (deprecated [April 5](https://twitter.com/RiotGamesDevRel/status/1764780016640852222?t=pHB1GpVotgKnNYU-OH_1HQ&s=19))
- [x] `Get current game information for the given summoner ID.`
- [x] `Get list of featured games.`
## SUMMONER-V4
- [x] `Get a summoner by account ID.`
- [x] `Get a summoner by summoner name.` (deprecated Oct 16th, 2023)
- [x] `Get a summoner by PUUID.` 
- [x] `Get a summoner by summoner ID.`
## TOURNAMENT-STUB-V4
- [ ] `Create a mock tournament code for the given tournament.`
- [ ] `Gets a mock list of lobby events by tournament code.`
- [ ] `Creates a mock tournament provider and returns its ID.`
- [ ] `Creates a mock tournament and returns its ID.`
## TOURNAMENT-V4
- [ ] `Create a tournament code for the given tournament.`
- [ ] `Returns the tournament code DTO associated with a tournament code string.`
- [ ] `Update the pick type, map, spectator type, or allowed summoners for a code.`
- [ ] `Gets a list of lobby events by tournament code.`
- [ ] `Creates a tournament provider and returns its ID.`
- [ ] `Creates a tournament and returns its ID.`

# TFT Endpoints
## TFT-SPECTATOR-V5
- [x] `Get current game information for the given puuid.`
- [x] `Get list of featured games.`
## TFT-SUMMONER-V1
- [x] `Get a summoner by account ID.`
- [x] `Get a summoner by summoner name.` (deprecated Oct 16th, 2023)
- [x] `Get a summoner by PUUID.`
- [x] `Get a summoner by summoner ID.`
## TFT-MATCH-V1
- [x] `Get match list by summoner PUUID.`
- [x] `Get match list details.`
## TFT-LEAGUE-V1
- [x] `Get the challenger league for given queue.`
- [x] `Get the grandmaster league for given queue.`
- [x] `Get the master league for given queue.`
- [x] `Get league entries in all queues for a given summoner ID.`
- [ ] `Get all the league entries.`
- [ ] `Get league with given ID, including inactive entries.`

# Run all examples

Download code from git and:

## Simple
```$ RIOT_API_KEY={YOUR_KEY} yarn example```

## Specific examples
```$ RIOT_API_KEY={YOUR_KEY} yarn example {exampleFunctionName}```

## With docker
Edit docker-compose.yml with your api key and:
```$ docker-compose up```

## Real project
We did a project based on a "twisted" package, this project is not finished but it is a very good example<br />
Github: https://github.com/twisted-gg

# Options

The following environment variables can be set either in the ```.env``` file or as shown in the examples:
 
## ```RIOT_API_KEY```

Obtained from the Riot Games developer page(https://developer.riotgames.com/)
Necessary to use this library.

## ```UPDATE_CHAMPION_IDS```

This library has an option to fetch an actual version of champion IDs regularly. This is useful in case a new champion
gets added, while the application runs. E.g. data crawlers, or services which aren't supposed to be restarted regularly.

Set the value to ```true``` or ```1``` to enable this feature.
